---
layout: default
title: Error Management
nav_order: 5
---
(Author: Philipp)
# Error Management

This part of the documentation is dedicated to the error management.  
The Code is supposed to catch most errors and either solve it or at least return a proper message to the User.  
The following tables consists of known errors with a possible solution.

### EnergyPlus Error:
The simulation was started, but EnergyPlus ran into an exception. An error file is automatically generated by "eppy" in the output folder and can be opened with a text viewer. This file is saved in the project folder in the sub directory "./backend/eppy_output/" and is called "eplusout.err". The file is structered by severness. In this case the message labeled "Fatal" is most important.  
Note: The different messages overlap sometimes, giving more information about the error.

#### Leap Day

Once in a while, february is 29 days long. EnergyPlus has problems simulating only this day.  
- Occurence: run period defined for only the leap day (e.g.: 2024-02-29 - 2024-02-29)  
- Solution: simulate the 28th and the 29th of february, both days are calculated properly

Example eplusout.err error file for this example:
```
    ** Severe  ** Multiple rewinds on EPW while searching for first day 2/29
    **  Fatal  ** Error occurred on EPW while searching for first day, stopped at 1991/12/31 1:0 IO Error='no error'
```

### Backend:
Many control instances for the uploaded data are integrated into the frontend. Thus, using only the REST-API to interact with the backend requires extra careful verification of the parameters.
- Run Period:
    - Both days are not validated for consistency
    - Endday equal or after the start day
    - Duration of the runperiod:
        - Equal or less than 1 year
        - Start year and end year always need to be equal
- Files:
    - File consistency is not checked
        - IDF-file: structure and necessary elements are not previosly checked
        - CSV-file: 
            - file structure: day|time|occupants|win1
            - file length: (rows % 1440) = 1
            - time coloumn format: HH:MM:SS
    - File encoded
    - File size does not exceed 16 megabytes (encoded!)
- Results: ESO-file format
